This is my solution to the hackerrank Circular Palindromes problem
https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/circular-palindromes/problem

I am the 217th person to solve this problem.

For this problem, a string is given to you and you need to find the length of the longest palindrome for each "rotation," which is simply a shift in the start of the string, putting the characters before the new start at the end of the new string. My solution is conceptually fairly simple. In the code, I represent each string as a list of sequences, each sequence consists of one character repeated multiple times (or just once). The string "aaaabbb" would be represented as a sequence of 4 as then 3 bs. If the ends share the same letter, then they are considered one sequence. The string "aaaabbba" then is represented as a sequence of 3 bs then 5 as. For each sequence, there exists a palindrome that shares its' center. Disregarding the ends of the string, these are "aabbbaa" for the b sequence and "baaaaab" for the a sequence. For each rotation, the actual length of the palindrome is determined by where endpoints are. In the string "aaaabbba", the palindrome "aabbbaa" is cut off to be "abbba". Additionally, there exists what I call "endcap" palindromes. In the string "ccccdc", the longest palindrome is "cccc", however it is not centered on the center of the c sequence. This is an endcap palindrome because the sequence "caps off the ends", causing the center of the palindrome to shift.

My code works by taking the string and converting it into a list of sequences. After this, it finds the longest palindrome possible centered on each of the sequences, disregarding the ends of the string. It sorts these palindromes into descending order so that the longest ones can be tested first for each rotation. It iterates over each rotation while keeping track of which sequence is currently the endcap. It determines the longest palindrome for that rotation by first finding the longest endcap, then by iterating over the sorted palindromes, returning when none of the still available possible palindromes are longer than the current longest palindrome.

My solution is in palindromes.cpp. The code in palindromes_v0.cpp was used while I was still figuring out how to approach the problem and is broken. I needed to change the structure of the code so much that I just put it in a new file.
